# SNHU-CS340 Client/Server Development
## Final Project
- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
  - To write code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I keep the code organized, use proper naming conventions, separating functionality into classes and functions, and documenting code where needed. In this project, the CRUD Python module helped separate database operations from the dashboard code, which made the program easier to test and extend. In the future, I can utilize this same CRUD module in any other project, such as dashboards, web applications, or tools that use MongoDB and would perform simple create, read, update, or delete operations.
- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
  - As a computer scientist, I approach problems by first analysing the client’s requirements, breaking the problem into smaller functional requirements, and then designing a solution for each small problem, plus how to bring them together. For Grazioso Salvare, this meant considering how the database, CRUD module, and dashboard would interact. I cannot say that the approach I used this time was drastically different from previous courses, but I definitely got a chance to practice designing and implementing a whole system from scratch in this course. For future projects involving DB design, I would design a DB based on what data application will work with, client requirements, and I plan to extensively test queries and the database interface layer, and write reusable code.
- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
  - Computer scientists design, build, and extend software systems that solve various problems, which hopefully help people. A project like this could help Grazioso Salvare easily search, filter, visualize, and analyse huge amounts of data (in this case, shelter animals) so they can make the best possible decisions. This saves human effort, enables better solutions/decisions, and in some cases makes previously believed to be unsolvable problems trivial.
